# Beckhoff-Examples
## Modern features in not so modern industry.

This repository contains code with simple features like : 

- Sending an email
- Sending a text message 
- Sorting an array
- Making a REST API call
- Data persistance to a database
- Generated user interface

**BUT** with a PLC. PLC is an idustrial Arduino on steroids.

Unfortunatelly working with PLC is cumbersome. 

PLCs were meant to replace physical wiring of relay logic - so it's more electrical engineering than software engineering.

So obviously it's not really good at software stuff

...unfortunatelly the industry forces you to write enterprise software in a PLC.

Beckhoff's TwinCAT 3 is one of few which offers modern features like object oriented programming, open API and integration in Visual Studio. 
Other platforms are using their own IDE with their own language.

---
# Expensive features simply and almost for free.

Delivering features with PLCs is cumbersome. Sure, it is possible to deliver a complex feature in a PLC, but is it worth the hassle?

Dealing with a hardware configuration, reading through an obscure documentation just to find the specific memory address... Yuck!

WELL NOT ON MY WATCH!

Time is precious, let's not waste it.

I'll show you how to implement some features from Inxton's Advanced package with the Core package.

Let's start with the most powerful one. Funny enough, it's pretty simple to implement it.


## Let's start
I'll focus on the conceptual design. Here's the code :

- TwinCAT function blocks - [Github link](https://github.com/jozefchmelar/Beckhoff-Examples/tree/master/src/PLC/TwinCAT/Plc/POUs)

- C# Twins/counterparts - [Github link](https://github.com/jozefchmelar/Beckhoff-Examples/tree/master/src/PLC/PlcConnector)

## How to call a C# method from the PLC

PLC has the `CSharpMethod` function block which encapsulates a simple logic. It also has a C# twin (a counterpart) generated by Inxton called `CSharpMethod.g.cs`

When the PLC sets the `InvokeRequested` variable, its C# counterpart will notice and do the work on the PC side. It will also notify the PLC that the work started and ended.

So to call a C# method from a PLC I have to initialize the counterpart and set a variable in the PLC.

 
## How to send an email from the PLC

I will use the `CSharpMethod` function block to send an email, because it's so much easier to do so in C# than in CoDeSys.

I created another function block `fbEmail` which contains a subject, content and the recipient of the email.

It also contains a variable `SendEmail` of type `CSharpMethod`. This variable needs to be initialized in its C# counterpart.

Like this
```csharp
SendEmail.Initialize(SendEmailMethod);
```

It says what C# method should be executed when PLC asks for it. Now you write the function which will send an email - which is rather simple.

Sending an email is possible with Beckhoff's TF6350 ([source](https://infosys.beckhoff.com/english.php?content=../content/1033/tf6350_tc3_sms_smtp/9007199628047499.html&id=5671277223372120786)).

I consider the PC implementation in C# method to be simpler, easier to maintain and easier to extend in the future. Also it comes with no additional costs.

On the other hand the implementation in PLC is not that bad and there's no need to generate a Twin because of single email. You do need additional licence though.

## How to send a text message from the PLC

Text message is similar to the email example. 

You can use the same library, Beckhoff TF6350 ([source](https://infosys.beckhoff.com/english.php?content=../content/1033/tf6350_tc3_sms_smtp/373331083.html&id=1327927650209356538)) with an additional modules and a GSM modem and rather poor documentation. 

Or you use a service like Twilio. Initialize the CSharp method with existing library from Twilio and you can send text messages within a few keystrokes...just for $0.0075. 


## How to sort an array in PLC

I found [this link on CoDeSys](https://forge.codesys.com/forge/talk/Runtime/thread/6ae1b1ff98/#c35d) forum with sorting code in the PLC. 

It's ridiculously complex and hard to read. And that's just for simple array of numbers. What if you want to sort array of structures?

Lucky for us it's really simple in C#.

Everyone understands what `Array.Sort(plain.MyArray);` does

...But the first example above? not so much.

## How to make a request to REST API from the PC

If you need to interact with a server, ERP or any other external application, there's a good chance you'll encounter REST API.

Again making the most out of the `CSharpMethod` function block, we delegate this functionality to the C# Twin. C# is used a lot in the server-side world, where REST API is a first class citizen. That's why there's a library like [Refit](https://github.com/reactiveui/refit) which makes interfacing 3rd party applications a breeze.

Using Refit, a sentiment analysis using machine learning solution was one API call away. 

I generated C# classes from JSON, parsing was done automatically, and I just pushed the result to the PLC. Fast and lean.


Beckhoff offers TF6760 ([source](https://infosys.beckhoff.com/content/1033/tf6760_tc3_iot_https_rest/9007207131995787.html?id=4342800848274939540)) for HTTP/REST communication. Again I find it more difficult to use, the amount of examples is not sufficient. I'm a bit worried about additional complexity of the code when HTTP Headers and different kinds of authorizations comes into the play.

# Data persistance to a database

The C# Twin comes with an unexpected benefit. It's possible to store entire objects of data into the database without any effort. 

Inxton offers this functionality in the Advanced package, but it's possible to implement it by using open source alternative like like [MongoRepository](https://github.com/RobThree/MongoRepository).

I extended every structure I want to save with `stEntity` and extended the C# counterpart `stEntity.g.cs` with the class from MongoRepository.